now the White House National Security
advisor has told American Media the US
does not want to see fighting in
hospitals in Gaza Jake Sullivan also
says Washington is involved in
negotiations with Israel and Qatar on
securing the release of captives held by
Hamas let's bring in shab banzi in
Washington DC for more on this so what
more has Jake Sullivan been saying
shab this was an interview to one US
Network that hasn't actually aired yet
but we managed to to listen in while it
was while it was taking place and it was
more of the same gentle tidding that
we've come to expect from the Biden
Administration as if we can't see the
catastrophe that's that unfold that's
unfolding or as if the Biden
Administration didn't actually really in
some ways hold the key to what's
happening on the ground there but but
Sullivan was asked several questions
firstly on the issue of Israeli attacks
on hospitals he was asked so does the US
confirm then that these are legitimate
Hamas targets command and control
centers he wouldn't confirm that he
simply said that using open source
information in the past Hamas has used
hospitals as covers and human Shields
but then he did say the US doesn't want
to see firefights in hospitals so
couched in all that language there was
apparently a warning the US doesn't want
to see firefights in hospitals that's as
strong as it gets then asked whether
about the the release of the captives
whether there was a deal on the table
which which at least one US member of
Congress has been telling the media
might be on the table that is some kind
of exchange between for the captives and
Palestinian women and children who are
held in Israeli jails he wouldn't
confirm that but simply confirm that uh
Israel Qatar and Hamas are in these
negotiations and the US is involved
thirdly on the 400 US citizens in Gaza
he said the gates are open currently and
he does expect more US citizens to leave
Gaza and then finally the main point in
the interview was when asked about
Netanyahu talking about having total
security control over Gaza for their
foreseeable future uh he said that as
far as he was concerned there has to be
um no forcible displacement of
Palestinian uh and ultimately the
Palestinians need to be in charge of
Gaza and the West Bank there has to be
some kind of linkage in the power in in
the Palestinian leadership to control to
control Gaza but however we can't get
back to October the 6th ultimately it's
up to the Palestinian people to decide
so it's that usual kind of mishmash of
of of of differences between the Israeli
position but not terribly not terribly
forceful in expressing those those
differences beyond that actually we're
expecting Benjamin Netanyahu to also do
the rounds of the Sunday talk shows as
well in the coming hours so we'll keep
an eye on that too thank you very much
for the moment chanzi live there in
Washington